excerpt from "SRP_ Masters Thesis 2024.docx"

---

"On July 29, 2023, I was sexually assaulted and physically assaulted. It was someone I knew. It was after I was promised that nothing sexual would happen. I told him I didn’t want to, but apparently that didn’t matter. I was choked, slapped, beaten and bruised. I was pinned down and used for someone else’s gain. My genitalia were scratched, torn, mutilated and bleeding profusely. It took months before my physical body healed. My mental self – the part of me that experiences vivid daily flashbacks, the part of me that hyperventilates when I leave the house, and the part of me that is haunted at night by the visual of a blood-soaked duvet – has yet to heal. I will never be able to fully understand why what happened to me happened, but all I know is that it will forever change my life and the way I navigate space. Similar to the phantom limb victim, I too am subjected to certain emotions and situations (79), or “triggers,” that bring me back to the moment I was assaulted.

I have two prominent triggers that bring me back to the traumatic event. My first trigger is seeing red cars. My perpetrator and I have known each other for over a year, and I know that he drives a red car. Specifically, his car is a run-down burgundy sedan. Every time I walk to the bus stop, to campus, downtown, or anywhere around London, I am hypervigilant of every red car that passes me. Even though I know his car is a burgundy sedan, I am wary of all red cars, including ones that are bright red and/or are SUVs. I have convinced myself that I may have been mistaken in my memory of what his car looked like, and that I need to be on high alert for any car that could remotely look like his. I believe the reason red cars trigger me is because of fear. I fear running into him or seeing him inside his car or worse, that he will see me. Part of me is scared that he would pull over to the side of the road to say hi, or to yell at me or threaten me with violence again. I connected the fear I associated with red cars and the potential for seeing him with the fear I experienced during the assault and shortly thereafter, which is what made the presence of red cars a trigger for me.

My second trigger is wearing structured, front-seam pants. During my assault, I endured blunt force trauma to my genitalia both internally and externally. This included injuries to my labia minora and clitoris. When I was initially injured, I couldn’t wear front-seam pants, such as jeans, for at least two weeks. The seam of the jeans would sit on my clitoris and would touch my labia minora. Since my clitoris was severed and my labia was cut and scratched, the pressure and friction from the front seam of the pants would be incredibly painful on my injuries, causing me to scream out in pain. This was especially problematic given that, at that time, I was working a desk job where I was sitting for 7 hours every day. The pressure from both the front seam and the desk chair would augment the pain, making it unbearable to wear jeans until my physical body healed. Although my genitalia were pretty much healed within two weeks, it took me two months to regularly wear jeans again. Even seven months later, wearing front-seam pants is still difficult, as they remind me vividly of the traumatic event itself. If the seam puts pressure on the formerly impacted area in any way, I am reminded of the pain I felt, and the vivacity of those memories hurts almost as much as the physical pain I felt on July 29th. My first trigger is less proximate than my second because the second trigger is more closely related to the trauma itself: it reminds me of the very specific injuries I sustained from the traumatic event. Nevertheless, both triggers are fear-inducing, and are equally impeding on my daily life."